Update Installation instructions (#6335)
sunpy/sunpy: docs/installation.rst

Installation
************

> The SunPy project maintains a range of libraries that leverage the wider ecosystem of scientific Python packages for solar physics.

Author: This is too abrupt.

Reviewer: I like it 👍

> Installing a SunPy library

Reviewer: I think we should leave this bit of the docs to just installing `sunpy` core. I've never heard the phrase "SunPy library" before.

Author: I think my original idea was to enable this to be generic enough that we don't have to write this page for every package under the sunpy project. 

The title is bad, I will admit to that.

Reviewer 2: I am not sure I agree, I don't want to have to maintain 10 copies of this page for each of the sponsored packages, what do you think we are loosing by making this useful to all our packages.

Reviewer: I think the specific language of "SunPy library" confused me. I think the way forward here is to make the installation instructions specific to sunpy core, but mention liberally throughout that this provides a base environment for intalling "other SunPy affiliated packages" (or whatever we're calling other packages these days)

==========================

> If you do not currently have a working scientific Python distribution this guide will set you up with `Miniforge <https://conda-forge.org/#about>`__, which makes it easy to install and manage Python packages.

Author: I think calling this a guide is wrong.

> If you do not currently have a working scientific Python distribution this guide will set you up with `Miniforge <https://conda-forge.org/#about>`__, which makes it easy to install and manage Python packages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These instructions will set you up with `Miniforge <https://conda-forge.org/#about>`__, which makes it easy to install and manage Python packages.
```

`To install the Miniforge Python distribution follow these instructions <https://github.com/conda-forge/miniforge#install>`__.

> We do not recommend that you use Anaconda, there are known conflicts with the "defaults" channel and the "conda-forge" channel that contains all of the SunPy libraries.

Author: Should we mention this at all or just drop all mentions of anaconda?

Reviewer: Yeah, I don't even know what "anaconda" means...? I think heavily recommending miniconda+conda-forge channel is the way to go.

> We do not recommend that you use Anaconda, there are known conflicts with the "defaults" channel and the "conda-forge" channel that contains all of the SunPy libraries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Installing ``miniconda`` will set the deafult conda channel to ``conda-forge``, which is required for installing ``sunpy`` and many other packages in the scientific Python ecosystem.
```

Reviewer 3: default mispelled

> Installing a package using Miniforge

Reviewer: Again, I think we should make this sunpy specific.

Updating a package
------------------
You can update to the latest version of any package by running:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ conda update <package_name>

Installing without conda
========================
This is for installing ``sunpy`` within a Python distribution, where ``pip`` has been used to install packages.
You will want to make sure you are using a `Python virtual environment <https://packaging.python.org/guides/installing-using-pip-and-virtual-environments/>`__.

Once the environment active, to acquire a full ``sunpy`` installation:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ pip install "sunpy[all]"

.. note::

    We strive to provide binary wheels for all of our packages.
    If you are using a Python distribution or operating system that is missing a binary wheel.
    ``pip`` will try to compile the package from source and this is likely to fail without a C compiler (e.g., ``gcc`` or ``clang``).
    Getting the compiler either from your system package manager or XCode should address this.

If you have a reason to want a more minimal installation, you can install sunpy with no optional dependencies, however this means a lot of submodules will not import:

.. code-block:: bash

>     $ pip install "sunpy"

Author: ```suggestion
    $ pip install sunpy
```

Installation
************

The SunPy project `maintains a range of packages <https://sunpy.org/project/affiliated>`__ that leverage the wider ecosystem of scientific Python packages for solar physics.

> Python distribution

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Installing Python
```

===================
These instructions will set you up with `miniforge <https://conda-forge.org/docs/user/introduction.html>`__, which makes it easy to install and manage Python packages.

> `To install the miniforge Python distribution follow these instructions <https://github.com/conda-forge/miniforge#install>`__.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To install the miniforge Python distribution follow `the miniforge installation instructions <https://github.com/conda-forge/miniforge#install>`__.
```

> Installing miniforge will set the default conda channel to ``conda-forge``, which is required for installing ``sunpy`` and many other packages in the scientific Python ecosystem.

Reviewer: I think the concept of a "channel" needs to be introduced before this sentence to avoid confusion.

Author: How about I delete this line altogether? The conda-forge docs explain this and I rather not repeat that in a worse manner.

Reviewer: 👍

> Installing a package using miniforge

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Installing a Python package
```

------------------------------------
To install ``sunpy``, launch a terminal (under a UNIX-like system) or miniforge Prompt (under Windows).

.. note::

>     We strongly recommend using a `Python virtual environment <https://packaging.python.org/guides/installing-using-pip-and-virtual-environments/>`__ or a `conda virtual environment. <https://towardsdatascience.com/getting-started-with-python-environments-using-conda-32e9f2779307>`__

Reviewer: The instructions have just stepped through installing `miniforge`, so to avoid confusion I think this note should be removed?

Author: You mean our instructions? Installing miniforge doesn't mean they are using virtual environments correctly, they could be installing into base.

Reviewer: Yeah, our instructions have just stepped through installing `miniforge`. Guess that's right that they still need to get a conda env working.

> You will want to activate your virtual environment then run:

Reviewer: Would probalby be good to step users through setting up a fresh environment and activating it?

Author: I can do so but I would rather point to some well written external guides on these topics if I can find some.

Reviewer: 👍

.. code-block:: bash

    $ conda install sunpy

> This will install ``sunpy`` and each of its dependencies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will install ``sunpy`` and all of its dependencies.
```

> You can replace ``sunpy`` with other packages such as ``ablog`` or ``sunkit-instruments``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can replace ``sunpy`` in the above install command with other packages such as``sunkit-instruments`` to install them.
```

> For the full range of packages available, `see the SunPy Affiliated Packages list <https://sunpy.org/project/affiliated>`__.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a list of some other Python packages for solar physics, `see the SunPy Affiliated Packages list <https://sunpy.org/project/affiliated>`__.
```

Updating a package
------------------
You can update to the latest version of any package by running:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ conda update <package_name>

> Installing on top of an existing scientific Python environment

Reviewer: Should we just delete all of this and replace it with an "installing without conda" section? I feel like there's a lot of potential for user confusion if we don't keep it simple here.

Author: Yeah I will do that.

Reviewer: 👍

--------------------------------------------------------------
This section assumes you already have everything setup, whether that be conda or a Python virtual environment.
These commands are to be executed within these environments.

conda
^^^^^

> If you want to install ``sunpy`` within a pre-existing conda environment, you will want to activate the virtual environment and run:

Author: Removed.

sunpy requires Python 3.8 or higher.

> Installing Scientific Python and ``sunpy``

Reviewer 2: I would argue that this is the wrong form of SunPy. This section of the docs is applicable to all coordinated packages as well as core.

Author: I can just drop the sunpy all together?

Reviewer 2: and more than that, I think it *should* be the one place for all those packages. Perhaps we should extend the install section to account for that as well?

Author: You mean, for ndcube or sunkit-*?

Reviewer 2: I mean in those packages we should be able to link here for setup? Maybe something along the lines of "You can conda install ndcube with `conda install -c conda-forge ndcube` see the sunpy installation instructions to get started"

So we should just make it clear where the breakpoint in these docs are for people linked here in that fashion?

Author: makes sense, I will see what I can butcher together.

==========================================

``sunpy`` is part of the wider ecosystem of scientific Python packages for solar physics.
Therefore a working ``sunpy`` installation is more about installing the scientific Python ecosystem than ``sunpy`` itself.

If you do not currently have a working scientific Python distribution this guide will set you up with the Miniforge, which makes it easy to install and manage your scientific Python packages.

`To install the Miniforge Python distribution follow these instructions <https://github.com/conda-forge/miniforge#install>`__.

We do not recommend that you use Anaconda, there are known conflicts with the "defaults" channel and the "conda-forge" channel which has the ``sunpy`` package.

Installing ``sunpy`` using Miniforge
------------------------------------

> To install ``sunpy``, launch a system command prompt or terminal.

Reviewer 2: Does miniforge come with a windows prompt thing?

Author: I need to install it to check

The available options are: ``[asdf]``, ``[dask]``, ``[database]``, ``[image]``, ``[jpeg2000]``, ``[map]``, ``[net]``, ``[timeseries]``, ``[visualization]``.

If you want to develop ``sunpy`` we would strongly recommend reading the `Newcomers' Guide <https://docs.sunpy.org/en/latest/dev_guide/contents/newcomers.html>`__.

.. note::
    If you get a ``PermissionError`` this means that you do not have the required administrative access to install new packages to your Python installation.

>     Do **not** install ``sunpy`` or other Python package using ``sudo``.

Author: ```suggestion
    Do **not** install ``sunpy`` or other Python packages using ``sudo``.
```
